#summary a pipeline for detecting lncRNAs from candidate transcripts
#labels lncRNA

= Introduction =
lncRScan (long non-coding RNA Scan) is a pipeline consists of five steps for detecting novel long non-coding RNAs from a set of candidate transcripts annotated by Cuffcompare. 

= Steps of lncRScan =
 * Step 1 'extract_category'-- extract several categories of transcripts, which may contain lncRNAs. The candidate categories can be 'c'(contained), `i' (a transfrag falling entirely within a reference intron), 'j' (potentially novel isoform), 'o'
(generic exonic overlap with a reference transcript), 'u' (intergenic transcript) and 'x' (exonic overlap with reference on the opposite strand).

 * Step 2 'extract_length'-- extract the transcripts having long exonic length (200nt).

 * Step 3 'extract ORF'-- exclude the assemblies that have long ( 300nt) putative ORF.

 * Step 4 'extract PhyloCSF'-- PhyloCSF was recruited to filter the transcripts of protein-coding potential from an evolutionary view.

 * Step 5 'extract Pfam'-- exclude transcripts with significant domain hits by searching Pfam.

= Input =
Candidate transcripts -- a GTF file annotated by Cuffcompare of Cufflinks.

Notes: each transcript in the GTF file has been assigned a classcode defined by
Cuffcompare and the classcode is needed for step 1 of lncRScan. If you have a GTF without Cuffcompare's annotation, you can just start from step 2.

= Tools used =
 * Scripts--

   (1) extract_GTF_class.pl -- extract GTF according to classcode list. e.g.
<blockquote>extract_GTF_class.pl example.gtf lnc_class</blockquote>
   (2) seq2protein.pl -- convert nucleotide sequences to amino acid sequences
<blockquote>seq2protein.pl example.fa > example.aa.fa</blockquote>
   (3) extract_long_multi.pl -- extract long(>200) multi-exon RNAs according to a BED file of transcripts
<blockquote>extract_long_multi.pl example.bed > example_long.bed</blockquote>

 * UCSC table browser(http://genome.ucsc.edu/cgi-bin/hgTables?command=start) -- extract BED and FASTA files according to GTF

 * Galaxy(https://main.g2.bx.psu.edu/) 'Stitch MAF blocks' -- fetch alignments of 29 mammals according to GTF/BED

 * PhyloCSF(https://github.com/mlin/PhyloCSF/wiki) -- a comparative genomics method for classifying protein-coding and non-coding regions

 * Pfam database(http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/search#tabview=tab1) -- it is a large collection of protein families

 * Bioperl(http://www.bioperl.org/wiki/Main_Page)